README.md, before:

<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/b/1/embed?height=600&amp;wkst=1&amp;bgcolor=%23ffffff&amp;ctz=America%2FNew_York&amp;src=ZmxhdGlyb25zY2hvb2wuY29tXzZtanJqdnR1OTIwaGhubGhiYmhob21lOThrQGdyb3VwLmNhbGVuZGFyLmdvb2dsZS5jb20&amp;color=%23AD1457&amp;title=onl01-seng-ft-081720%20Cohort%20Calendar" style="border:solid 1px #777" width="800" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

## Your Cohort Lead: 
Corinna Brock Moore - corinna@flatironschool.com

## Your Educational Coach: 
Andrew Della Rocca - andrew.dellarocca@flatironschool.com - [Booking Link](https://andrewdellarocca.youcanbook.me/)

## Helpful Links 

1. [Zoom link for Pods, Study Groups, and 1:1's ](https://flatironschool.zoom.us/j/4369506625?pwd=MkVxUUg0dERvU1NVZDV5MzJBMlNodz09)

## Pod Info
[Rubber Duck Debugging. How it all began.](https://hwrnmnbsol.livejournal.com/148664.html)

### Current Repos for Projects
#### Rails
- [The Paste Squad - Tuesday 1:30pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/tues-130pm-rails)
- [Tuesday 2:30pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/tues-230pm-rails)
- [Wednesday 1:00pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/wed-1pm-rails)
- [Wednesday Drinks - Wednesday 3:00pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/wed-3pm-rails)
- [Thursday 9:00am](https://github.com/cjbrock/thurs-9am-rails)
- [Friday 10:00am](https://github.com/cjbrock/fri-10am-rails)

#### Sinatra
- [The Paste Squad - Tuesday 1:30pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/tues-130pm-sinatra)
- [Tuesday 2:30pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/tues-230pm-sinatra)
- [Wednesday 1:00pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/wed-1pm-sinatra)
- [Wednesday Drinks - Wednesday 3:00pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/wed-3pm-sinatra)
- [Thursday 9:00am](https://github.com/cjbrock/thurs-9am-sinatra)
- [Friday 10:00am](https://github.com/cjbrock/fri-10am-sinatra)  


# Current Assignments

## Week 13: November 16, 2020

#### This week's focus: Procedural Javascript & Basic Manipulation of DOM

By the end of this week, you should be able to:
- Understand what JavaScript is used for
- Write procedural JavaScript with correct syntax
- Code basic manipulation of the DOM

1. Monday - Defining Front-End Web Programming, JS and Rails - Manipulating the DOM (Changing The DOM With Dev Tools) (6 Lessons)
2. Tuesday - JS and Rails - Manipulating the DOM (JS Fundamentals: Looping And Iteration Code Along) (7 Lessons)
3. Wednesday - JS and Rails - Manipulating the DOM (Finish), JS and Rails - Recognizing JavaScript Events (Functions In JavaScript) (7 Lessons)
4. Thursday - JS and Rails - Recognizing JavaScript Events (JS Fundamentals: Scope Lab (7 Lessons)
5. Friday - JS and Rails - Recognizing JavaScript Events (Finish) (6 Lessons)

# Study Group Videos and Code

[Additional Video Resources](https://instruction.learn.co/)

| Topic         | Video         | Code/Other | Repl/other resources|
| ------------- |:-------------:| ----------- | ------------------- |
| **Week 13** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Intro to DOM and DOM Manipulation | [Video](https://youtu.be/IlDdzoHO-HU) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/intro-to-js-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - JavaScript Fundamentals | [Video](https://youtu.be/rXPrP-bfiJo) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/js-fundamentals-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - JavaScript Events | [Video](https://youtu.be/gNUtU6cfSlE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/js-events-081720) | [Mozilla Event Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events) |
| **Week 11** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Routing in Rails - Nested Routes | [Video](https://youtu.be/OEgni72l3uE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-nested-routes-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Authentication in Rails - Native | [Video](https://youtu.be/nX_UIh94CCE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-auth-native-081720) | [Tutorial](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/simple-authentication-guide-with-ruby-on-rails-16a6255f0be8) |
| Live Lecture - Authentication in Rails with Devise and OmniAuth | [Video](https://youtu.be/6wuah4DGWo8) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-auth-devise-omniauth-081720) | [Devise Cheat Sheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11XRkOvvmlDN6yJ1Ct2j9fxwR6UoNn0peZtaDgHwZq5A/edit#) |
| Live Discussion - Rails Portfolio Project Prep | [Video](https://youtu.be/DA4-1uRA9Wo) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-project-prep-081720) |  |
| Lab Walkthrough - Has Many Through In Forms Lab | [Video](https://youtu.be/tNN9-26x5XQ) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/has-many-through-in-forms-walkthrough) | [Lab](https://learn.co/tracks/online-software-engineering-structured/rails/associations-and-rails/has-many-through-in-forms-lab) |
| Lab Walkthrough - Routing and Nesting Resources Lab | [Video](https://youtu.be/_Q74CnujTIE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/nested-resources-walkthrough) | [Lab](https://learn.co/tracks/online-software-engineering-structured/rails/routes-and-resources/routing-and-nested-resources-lab) |
| **Week 10** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Rails Validations | [Video](https://youtu.be/sHK7gS87uj4) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-validations-081720) | [ActiveRecord Validations](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_validations.html) |
| Live Lecture - Rails Associations and Nested Forms | [Video](https://youtu.be/v2MmnOHw9hE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-nested-forms-081720) | [Nested Attributes Class Methods](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/NestedAttributes/ClassMethods.html) |
| Live Lecture - Refactoring w Layouts, Partials, Helpers | [Video](https://youtu.be/VLSyEkBxGMA) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-partials-helpers-layouts-081720) | [For a good STRFtime](https://www.foragoodstrftime.com/) |
| **Week 9** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Intro to Rails | [Video](https://youtu.be/jhQZRIjDs9c) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/intro-to-rails-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Rails Models and ReSTful Routing | [Video](https://youtu.be/PrrRzrG4TfE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-models-and-restful-routing-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Rails CRUD | [Video](https://youtu.be/YddbP22n9wM) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-crud-081720) |  |
| **Week 8** |  |  |  |
| Project Week - Flash Errors | [Video](https://youtu.be/JoLEeqSram4) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-project-prep-081720) |  |
| Project Week - Environment Variables and .env files | [Video](https://youtu.be/SPeErPVrgIw) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-project-prep-081720) |  |
| **Week 7** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Sinatra REST, MVC, and Forms | [Video](https://youtu.be/rIfELjA5QOw) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-rest-mvc-forms-081720) | [Sinatra Project Examples](http://sinatrarb.com/wild.html) |
| Live Lecture - Sinatra CRUD | [Video](https://youtu.be/4RWmY-TfGWU) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-crud-081720) | [Sinatra Documentation](http://sinatrarb.com/documentation.html) |
| Live Lecture - User Authentication in Sinatra | [Video](https://youtu.be/p4CQ7DnTWqI) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-auth-081720) | [Sinatra Project Resources](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MN8Lsbv9xp5vqeogHRxL_miVwp7HwZ4LZ4kW9nPrMqk/edit?usp=sharing) |
| Live Lecture - Sinatra Project Prep | [Video](https://youtu.be/t3_jlDbOdTU) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-project-prep-081720) | [ActiveRecord Validations](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_validations.html#uniqueness)  |
| **Week 6** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Intro to ActiveRecord | [Video](https://youtu.be/BahIp02zbgo) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/intro-to-activerecord-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - ActiveRecord & Associations | [Video](https://youtu.be/zS0Y7WzFTLw) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/activerecord-associations-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Sinatra Basics | [Video](https://youtu.be/4bpt3mQEK8o) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-basics-081720) | [Corneal Gem](https://github.com/thebrianemory/corneal) |
| **Week 5** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Intro to SQL | [Video](https://youtu.be/i9dXqCK3ym0) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/intro-to-sql-081720) | [SQLite Browser](https://sqlitebrowser.org/) |
| Live Pairing - SQL Queries Bootcamp | [Video](https://youtu.be/kCtzXLhvOTE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sql-query-bootcamp-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Build an ORM from Scratch | [Video](https://youtu.be/aBxCBX6AYsI) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/create-your-orm-from-scratch-081720) |  |
| **Week 4** |  |  |  |
| How To Start Your CLI Project and Commit it to Github | [Video](https://youtu.be/ix0G54gxS58) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/cli-project-081720) | |
| **Week 3** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Object Relationships | [Video](https://youtu.be/b2sPkJ_L-KI) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/object-relationships-081720) |  |
| Office Hours - Tuesday 9/1/20 - Has Many Objects Lab | [Video](https://youtu.be/eoEZEqOhwxU) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/ruby-objects-has-many-lab-onl01-seng-ft-081720) | |
| Live Lecture - Accessing Data From Remote Resources (APIs) | [Video](https://youtu.be/EyrUQAO96z4) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/accessing-data-remote-sources-081720) |  |
| Office Hours - Wednesday 9/2/20 - Collaborating Objects Lab | [Video](https://youtu.be/I50kEn4WNwU) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/collaborating-objects-081720) | |
| Live Discussion - Build a CLI Application with API | [Video](https://youtu.be/CuYa0x3uRHo) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/star-wars-api-081720) |  |
| Office Hours - Thursday 9/3/20 - Finish Collaborating Objects and discuss API project | [Video](https://youtu.be/bXECQJTKuVY) | | |
| Project Prep - CLI Data Gem Portfolio Project and Scraping | [Video](https://youtu.be/-rpTxgP5VmI) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/star-wars-scraper-081720) |  |
| Office Hours - Friday 9/4/20 - Second part of Scraping lecture | [Video](https://youtu.be/ctuFAakoBAI) |  |  |
| **Week 2** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture Intro To OO Ruby | [Video](https://youtu.be/fLJZo2zlNzQ) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/intro-to-oo-ruby-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Object Initialization & Object Properties | [Video](https://youtu.be/deWsWcv4M2c) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/object-initialization-properties-081720) | [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1N-1jr-N0p0yU2P8kIk9XzgH7UQakKAc2Mt4lRDA_BQQ/edit?usp=sharing) |
| Live Lecture - Object Self & Class Variables | [Video](https://flatironschool.zoom.us/rec/share/x9wqDerZ_FJOAdKWtUrGC7AaANvFeaa80yRI__cMzE9jZ9xBL_4QlCsOGA9TSDuA) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/object-self-081720) | [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zwL3X1wgrWkbqDbNzJ88qZKZngZ9Q_OQpSOo9v_Okww/edit?usp=sharing) |
| Open Office Hours - OO TicTacToe | [Video](https://flatironschool.zoom.us/rec/share/vsNEd7fV-31JZYWO-XjHSIkTToDMaaa8gHIX-_QOnU5tsZaVSdWTHYuClKqUMBa7) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/oo-tictactoe-081720) | [Video from the 3/2/20 cohort through the turn method](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mngGd1UkoS0&feature=youtu.be) |
| **Week 1** |  |  |  |
| Orientation | [Orientation Video](https://youtu.be/uRd7Uc8jyjs) | [Orientation Quiz](https://forms.gle/EvjuWRGsyNrsPrKT8) |  |
| Lab Walkthrough - If Statements Lab && Ternary Operators and Statement Modifiers | [Video](https://youtu.be/6SKBGRV5Uxo) | [If Statements Lab](https://learn.co/tracks/online-software-engineering-ft-first-mile/procedural-ruby/logic-and-conditionals/if-statements-lab) | [Ternary Operators and Statement Modifiers](https://learn.co/tracks/online-software-engineering-ft-first-mile/procedural-ruby/logic-and-conditionals/ternary-operators-and-statement-modifiers) |
| Live Lecture - Arrays | [Video](https://youtu.be/oK3hPfT4naI) | [Repl.it](https://repl.it/@cjnboston/081720#main.rb) | [Ruby Docs Array Methods](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.0/Array.html#method-i-all-3F) |
| Lab Walkthrough - Deli Counter and Pry deep dive | [Video](https://youtu.be/dd7MDnzxY2I) | [Deli Counter](https://learn.co/tracks/online-software-engineering-ft-first-mile/procedural-ruby/iteration/deli-counter-lab) | [Iterator Cheat Sheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1R6IxVjiW2dLKugG45s34yjZ_EQSRJ3vXf4FRKlIg7KU/edit?usp=sharing) |
| Pair Programming Demo + Practice | [Video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1v1Vmn7kT4tabur7FKHJt0NKFxQiPw7vL/view) | [Pair Programming Quiz](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfr63QGhW_NDySBnQ-A-pkpPmAJdoJGHddeFf0C5lCKrrp-Cg/viewform) |  |

# Past Assignments

### BREAK WEEK November 9-15, 2020

### Week 12: November 2, 2020
#### This week's focus: Rails Portfolio Project

1. Rails: Final Projects
2. Write a Blog Post about the app
3. Record Your Project Walkthrough (2 min showing what it does)
4. Share that video with your cohort (optional)
5. Submit project on Learn by end of day Sun 11/08/20 (although we do have break week the next week, so you can use that time to either work on your project OR start Javascript early)

### Week 11: October 26, 2020

#### This week's focus: Rails Helpers, Authentication, and Advanced Routing

By the end of this week, you should be able to:

- Add Helpers and Model Methods to clean up your code
- Add authentication and sessions to your rails projects for signing in users
- Create nested routing as well as namespaced routing to your rails applications

1. Monday - Rails: Routes and Resources (6 Lessons)
2. Tuesday - Rails: Authentication (Sessions Controller Lab) (5 Lessons)
3. Wednesday - Rails: Authentication (Video Review: Authentication) (5 Lessons)
4. Thursday - Rails: Authentication (Authentication And Authorization Recap And Common Gems) (4 Lessons)
5. Friday - Rails: Authentication (Finish), Popular Gems (2 Lessons)

### Week 10: October 19, 2020
#### This week's focus: Rails Validations/Forms, Associations, and Layouts/Partials

By the end of this week, you should be able to:
- Add validations to your models
- Define associations between your models
- Build helpers for your views

1. Monday - Rails: Validations and Forms (Validations With Form_For) (7 Lessons)
2. Tuesday - Rails: Validations and Forms (Finish), Rails: Associations and Rails (Displaying Associations Data Lab) (8 Lessons)
3. Wednesday - Rails: Associations and Rails (Finish) (10 Lessons)
4. Thursday - Rails: Layouts and Partials (6 Lessons)
5. Friday - Rails: Refactoring with Helpers and Model Methods (5 Lessons)

### Week 9: October 12, 2020
#### This week's focus: Intro to Rails

By the end of this week, you should be able to:

- Build a basic Rails application from scratch
- Build models, views, and controllers in a Rails application
- Perform CRUD operations on a Rails app

1. Monday - Rails: Introduction to Rails (6 lessons)
2. Tuesday - Rails: Model Basics, Rails: Intro to REST (6 lessons)
3. Wednesday - Rails: Intro to ActionView (4 lessons)
4. Thursday - Rails: CRUD with Rails (Strong Param Basics) (6 lessons)
5. Friday - Rails: CRUD with Rails (finish) (6 lessons)

### Week 8: October 4, 2020
#### This week's focus: Sinatra Portfolio Project

1. Sinatra: Final Projects
2. Write a Blog Post about the app
3. Record Your Project Walkthrough (2 min showing what it does)
4. Share that video with your cohort (optional)
5. Submit project on Learn by end of day Sun 10/04/20

### Week 7: September 28. 2020
#### This week's focus: Sinatra Forms & Sessions

By the end of this week, you should be able to:
- Build a basic form and a corresponding route to accept data from the form
- Define Sinatra routes using RESTful conventions
- Implement basic CRUD actions in Sinatra using ActiveRecord
- Add log in/sign up/log out functionality to a Sinatra app
- Use bcrypt to store passwords securely in the db and authenticate them upon login
- Create a Sinatra application that utilizes a Join table
- Use multiple controllers in a Sinatra application

1. Monday - Sinatra: MVC And Forms, Forms (Passing Data between Views and Controllers) (12 lessons)
2. Tuesday - Sinatra: Forms (finish), Sessions (13 lessons)
3. Wednesday - Sinatra: ActiveRecord (Secure Password Lab) (7 lessons)
4. Thursday - Sinatra: ActiveRecord (Finish) (8 lessons)
5. Friday - Sinatra: Project Mode (Fwitter) (1 lessons)

### Week 6: September 21, 2020
#### This week's focus: ActiveRecord Associations & Sinatra Basics

By the end of this week, you should be able to:

- Select data using ActiveRecord's querying methods
- Create a has_many / belongs_to relationship using ActiveRecord
- Start a Sinatra server using shotgun
- Define a Sinatra route and visit it in the browser

1. Monday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: ActiveRecord (Mechanics of Migration) (4 lessons)
2. Tuesday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: ActiveRecord (Finish) (4 lessons)
3. Wednesday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: Associations (ActiveRecord Associations Lab II) (3 lessons)
4. Thursday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: Associations (Finish) (4 lessons)
5. Friday - Sinatra: Sinatra Basics (7 lessons)
6. BONUS - HTML and CSS (optional)

### Week 5: September 14, 2020
#### This week's focus: SQL & ORMs | CLI Project Reviews

- SQL: Topic Introduction
- SQL: Getting Started
- SQL: Table Relations
- ORMs and ActiveRecord: ORMs

1. Monday - SQL: Topic Introduction, SQL: Getting Started (10 lessons)
2. Tuesday - SQL: Table Relations (9 lessons)
3. Wednesday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: ORMs (Mapping Database Rows to Objects Lab) (5 lessons)
4. Thursday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: ORMs (ORMS lab: Bringing it all together) (5 lessons)
5. Friday - ORMS and ActiveRecord: ORMs (finish) (6 lessons)

### Week 4: September 7, 2020
#### This week's focus: CLI Data Gem Project

1. Object Oriented Ruby: Final Projects - CLI Data Gem Project
2. Write a Blog Post about the app
3. Record Your Cli Portfolio Project Walkthrough (2 min showing what it does)
4. Share that video with your cohort (optional)
5. Submit project on Learn by end of day Sunday 09/13/2020

### Week 3: August 31, 2020
#### This week's focus: Object Relationships

- Object Oriented Ruby: Object Relationships
- Object Oriented Ruby: Object Architecture
- Object Oriented Ruby: Metaprogramming
- Object Oriented Ruby: Scraping
- Object Oriented Ruby: Video Review of OO Ruby
- Object Oriented Ruby: Final Projects - Complete through Student Scraper
- BONUS:  Object Oriented Ruby: Final Projects - TTT w AI

1. Monday - Object relationships (OO My Pets) (125)
2. Tuesday - Object relationships (Finish), Object Architecture (135)
3. Wednesday - Metaprogramming, Scraping, Getting Data From Remote Sources (151)
4. Thursday - Music library CLI (152)
5. Friday - Student Scraper (153)

### Week 2: August 24, 2020
#### This week's focus: Object Oriented Programming
#### By the end of this week, you should be able to:

- Define a class
- Create an instance(object) from a class
- Define an initialize method and know the lifecycle of an object
- Create reader and writer methods
- Create instance methods and instance variables
- Create class methods and class variables
- Understand what self is in a class method vs an instance method

1. Monday - Intro to Object Orientation, Classes and Instances, Instance Methods (90)
2. Tuesday - Object Properties (97)
3. Wednesday - Object Lifecycle, Object’s Self (104)
4. Thursday - Class Variables and Methods, Object Models (112)
5. Friday - OO Tic Tac Toe, Object Labs (117)


### Week 1: August 17, 2020
#### This week's focus:  Procedural Ruby 

1. Monday - Welcome to Flatiron School, Software Engineering, About Your Program, Variables and Methods, Booleans, Logic and Conditions (35)
2. Tuesday - Looping (all), Arrays (all) (48)
3. Wednesday - Iteration (all) (69)
4. Thursday - Hashes (all) (75)
5. Friday - Data Structures (all) (84)

Commit message:

add corinna one on one link

README.md, after:

<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/b/1/embed?height=600&amp;wkst=1&amp;bgcolor=%23ffffff&amp;ctz=America%2FNew_York&amp;src=ZmxhdGlyb25zY2hvb2wuY29tXzZtanJqdnR1OTIwaGhubGhiYmhob21lOThrQGdyb3VwLmNhbGVuZGFyLmdvb2dsZS5jb20&amp;color=%23AD1457&amp;title=onl01-seng-ft-081720%20Cohort%20Calendar" style="border:solid 1px #777" width="800" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

## Your Cohort Lead: 
Corinna Brock Moore - corinna@flatironschool.com

## Your Educational Coach: 
Andrew Della Rocca - andrew.dellarocca@flatironschool.com - [Booking Link](https://andrewdellarocca.youcanbook.me/)

## Helpful Links 

1. [Zoom link for Pods, Study Groups, and 1:1's ](https://flatironschool.zoom.us/j/4369506625?pwd=MkVxUUg0dERvU1NVZDV5MzJBMlNodz09)
2. [If you would like to book a one on one with Corinna](https://go.oncehub.com/corinna1on1)

## Pod Info
[Rubber Duck Debugging. How it all began.](https://hwrnmnbsol.livejournal.com/148664.html)

### Current Repos for Projects
#### Rails
- [The Paste Squad - Tuesday 1:30pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/tues-130pm-rails)
- [Tuesday 2:30pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/tues-230pm-rails)
- [Wednesday 1:00pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/wed-1pm-rails)
- [Wednesday Drinks - Wednesday 3:00pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/wed-3pm-rails)
- [Thursday 9:00am](https://github.com/cjbrock/thurs-9am-rails)
- [Friday 10:00am](https://github.com/cjbrock/fri-10am-rails)

#### Sinatra
- [The Paste Squad - Tuesday 1:30pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/tues-130pm-sinatra)
- [Tuesday 2:30pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/tues-230pm-sinatra)
- [Wednesday 1:00pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/wed-1pm-sinatra)
- [Wednesday Drinks - Wednesday 3:00pm](https://github.com/cjbrock/wed-3pm-sinatra)
- [Thursday 9:00am](https://github.com/cjbrock/thurs-9am-sinatra)
- [Friday 10:00am](https://github.com/cjbrock/fri-10am-sinatra)  


# Current Assignments

## Week 13: November 16, 2020

#### This week's focus: Procedural Javascript & Basic Manipulation of DOM

By the end of this week, you should be able to:
- Understand what JavaScript is used for
- Write procedural JavaScript with correct syntax
- Code basic manipulation of the DOM

1. Monday - Defining Front-End Web Programming, JS and Rails - Manipulating the DOM (Changing The DOM With Dev Tools) (6 Lessons)
2. Tuesday - JS and Rails - Manipulating the DOM (JS Fundamentals: Looping And Iteration Code Along) (7 Lessons)
3. Wednesday - JS and Rails - Manipulating the DOM (Finish), JS and Rails - Recognizing JavaScript Events (Functions In JavaScript) (7 Lessons)
4. Thursday - JS and Rails - Recognizing JavaScript Events (JS Fundamentals: Scope Lab (7 Lessons)
5. Friday - JS and Rails - Recognizing JavaScript Events (Finish) (6 Lessons)

# Study Group Videos and Code

[Additional Video Resources](https://instruction.learn.co/)

| Topic         | Video         | Code/Other | Repl/other resources|
| ------------- |:-------------:| ----------- | ------------------- |
| **Week 13** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Intro to DOM and DOM Manipulation | [Video](https://youtu.be/IlDdzoHO-HU) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/intro-to-js-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - JavaScript Fundamentals | [Video](https://youtu.be/rXPrP-bfiJo) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/js-fundamentals-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - JavaScript Events | [Video](https://youtu.be/gNUtU6cfSlE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/js-events-081720) | [Mozilla Event Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events) |
| **Week 11** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Routing in Rails - Nested Routes | [Video](https://youtu.be/OEgni72l3uE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-nested-routes-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Authentication in Rails - Native | [Video](https://youtu.be/nX_UIh94CCE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-auth-native-081720) | [Tutorial](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/simple-authentication-guide-with-ruby-on-rails-16a6255f0be8) |
| Live Lecture - Authentication in Rails with Devise and OmniAuth | [Video](https://youtu.be/6wuah4DGWo8) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-auth-devise-omniauth-081720) | [Devise Cheat Sheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/11XRkOvvmlDN6yJ1Ct2j9fxwR6UoNn0peZtaDgHwZq5A/edit#) |
| Live Discussion - Rails Portfolio Project Prep | [Video](https://youtu.be/DA4-1uRA9Wo) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-project-prep-081720) |  |
| Lab Walkthrough - Has Many Through In Forms Lab | [Video](https://youtu.be/tNN9-26x5XQ) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/has-many-through-in-forms-walkthrough) | [Lab](https://learn.co/tracks/online-software-engineering-structured/rails/associations-and-rails/has-many-through-in-forms-lab) |
| Lab Walkthrough - Routing and Nesting Resources Lab | [Video](https://youtu.be/_Q74CnujTIE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/nested-resources-walkthrough) | [Lab](https://learn.co/tracks/online-software-engineering-structured/rails/routes-and-resources/routing-and-nested-resources-lab) |
| **Week 10** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Rails Validations | [Video](https://youtu.be/sHK7gS87uj4) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-validations-081720) | [ActiveRecord Validations](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_validations.html) |
| Live Lecture - Rails Associations and Nested Forms | [Video](https://youtu.be/v2MmnOHw9hE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-nested-forms-081720) | [Nested Attributes Class Methods](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveRecord/NestedAttributes/ClassMethods.html) |
| Live Lecture - Refactoring w Layouts, Partials, Helpers | [Video](https://youtu.be/VLSyEkBxGMA) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-partials-helpers-layouts-081720) | [For a good STRFtime](https://www.foragoodstrftime.com/) |
| **Week 9** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Intro to Rails | [Video](https://youtu.be/jhQZRIjDs9c) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/intro-to-rails-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Rails Models and ReSTful Routing | [Video](https://youtu.be/PrrRzrG4TfE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-models-and-restful-routing-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Rails CRUD | [Video](https://youtu.be/YddbP22n9wM) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/rails-crud-081720) |  |
| **Week 8** |  |  |  |
| Project Week - Flash Errors | [Video](https://youtu.be/JoLEeqSram4) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-project-prep-081720) |  |
| Project Week - Environment Variables and .env files | [Video](https://youtu.be/SPeErPVrgIw) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-project-prep-081720) |  |
| **Week 7** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Sinatra REST, MVC, and Forms | [Video](https://youtu.be/rIfELjA5QOw) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-rest-mvc-forms-081720) | [Sinatra Project Examples](http://sinatrarb.com/wild.html) |
| Live Lecture - Sinatra CRUD | [Video](https://youtu.be/4RWmY-TfGWU) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-crud-081720) | [Sinatra Documentation](http://sinatrarb.com/documentation.html) |
| Live Lecture - User Authentication in Sinatra | [Video](https://youtu.be/p4CQ7DnTWqI) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-auth-081720) | [Sinatra Project Resources](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MN8Lsbv9xp5vqeogHRxL_miVwp7HwZ4LZ4kW9nPrMqk/edit?usp=sharing) |
| Live Lecture - Sinatra Project Prep | [Video](https://youtu.be/t3_jlDbOdTU) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-project-prep-081720) | [ActiveRecord Validations](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_validations.html#uniqueness)  |
| **Week 6** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Intro to ActiveRecord | [Video](https://youtu.be/BahIp02zbgo) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/intro-to-activerecord-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - ActiveRecord & Associations | [Video](https://youtu.be/zS0Y7WzFTLw) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/activerecord-associations-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Sinatra Basics | [Video](https://youtu.be/4bpt3mQEK8o) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sinatra-basics-081720) | [Corneal Gem](https://github.com/thebrianemory/corneal) |
| **Week 5** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Intro to SQL | [Video](https://youtu.be/i9dXqCK3ym0) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/intro-to-sql-081720) | [SQLite Browser](https://sqlitebrowser.org/) |
| Live Pairing - SQL Queries Bootcamp | [Video](https://youtu.be/kCtzXLhvOTE) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/sql-query-bootcamp-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Build an ORM from Scratch | [Video](https://youtu.be/aBxCBX6AYsI) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/create-your-orm-from-scratch-081720) |  |
| **Week 4** |  |  |  |
| How To Start Your CLI Project and Commit it to Github | [Video](https://youtu.be/ix0G54gxS58) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/cli-project-081720) | |
| **Week 3** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture - Object Relationships | [Video](https://youtu.be/b2sPkJ_L-KI) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/object-relationships-081720) |  |
| Office Hours - Tuesday 9/1/20 - Has Many Objects Lab | [Video](https://youtu.be/eoEZEqOhwxU) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/ruby-objects-has-many-lab-onl01-seng-ft-081720) | |
| Live Lecture - Accessing Data From Remote Resources (APIs) | [Video](https://youtu.be/EyrUQAO96z4) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/accessing-data-remote-sources-081720) |  |
| Office Hours - Wednesday 9/2/20 - Collaborating Objects Lab | [Video](https://youtu.be/I50kEn4WNwU) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/collaborating-objects-081720) | |
| Live Discussion - Build a CLI Application with API | [Video](https://youtu.be/CuYa0x3uRHo) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/star-wars-api-081720) |  |
| Office Hours - Thursday 9/3/20 - Finish Collaborating Objects and discuss API project | [Video](https://youtu.be/bXECQJTKuVY) | | |
| Project Prep - CLI Data Gem Portfolio Project and Scraping | [Video](https://youtu.be/-rpTxgP5VmI) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/star-wars-scraper-081720) |  |
| Office Hours - Friday 9/4/20 - Second part of Scraping lecture | [Video](https://youtu.be/ctuFAakoBAI) |  |  |
| **Week 2** |  |  |  |
| Live Lecture Intro To OO Ruby | [Video](https://youtu.be/fLJZo2zlNzQ) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/intro-to-oo-ruby-081720) |  |
| Live Lecture - Object Initialization & Object Properties | [Video](https://youtu.be/deWsWcv4M2c) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/object-initialization-properties-081720) | [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1N-1jr-N0p0yU2P8kIk9XzgH7UQakKAc2Mt4lRDA_BQQ/edit?usp=sharing) |
| Live Lecture - Object Self & Class Variables | [Video](https://flatironschool.zoom.us/rec/share/x9wqDerZ_FJOAdKWtUrGC7AaANvFeaa80yRI__cMzE9jZ9xBL_4QlCsOGA9TSDuA) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/object-self-081720) | [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1zwL3X1wgrWkbqDbNzJ88qZKZngZ9Q_OQpSOo9v_Okww/edit?usp=sharing) |
| Open Office Hours - OO TicTacToe | [Video](https://flatironschool.zoom.us/rec/share/vsNEd7fV-31JZYWO-XjHSIkTToDMaaa8gHIX-_QOnU5tsZaVSdWTHYuClKqUMBa7) | [Code](https://github.com/cjbrock/oo-tictactoe-081720) | [Video from the 3/2/20 cohort through the turn method](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mngGd1UkoS0&feature=youtu.be) |
| **Week 1** |  |  |  |
| Orientation | [Orientation Video](https://youtu.be/uRd7Uc8jyjs) | [Orientation Quiz](https://forms.gle/EvjuWRGsyNrsPrKT8) |  |
| Lab Walkthrough - If Statements Lab && Ternary Operators and Statement Modifiers | [Video](https://youtu.be/6SKBGRV5Uxo) | [If Statements Lab](https://learn.co/tracks/online-software-engineering-ft-first-mile/procedural-ruby/logic-and-conditionals/if-statements-lab) | [Ternary Operators and Statement Modifiers](https://learn.co/tracks/online-software-engineering-ft-first-mile/procedural-ruby/logic-and-conditionals/ternary-operators-and-statement-modifiers) |
| Live Lecture - Arrays | [Video](https://youtu.be/oK3hPfT4naI) | [Repl.it](https://repl.it/@cjnboston/081720#main.rb) | [Ruby Docs Array Methods](https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.0/Array.html#method-i-all-3F) |
| Lab Walkthrough - Deli Counter and Pry deep dive | [Video](https://youtu.be/dd7MDnzxY2I) | [Deli Counter](https://learn.co/tracks/online-software-engineering-ft-first-mile/procedural-ruby/iteration/deli-counter-lab) | [Iterator Cheat Sheet](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1R6IxVjiW2dLKugG45s34yjZ_EQSRJ3vXf4FRKlIg7KU/edit?usp=sharing) |
| Pair Programming Demo + Practice | [Video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1v1Vmn7kT4tabur7FKHJt0NKFxQiPw7vL/view) | [Pair Programming Quiz](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfr63QGhW_NDySBnQ-A-pkpPmAJdoJGHddeFf0C5lCKrrp-Cg/viewform) |  |

# Past Assignments

### BREAK WEEK November 9-15, 2020

### Week 12: November 2, 2020
#### This week's focus: Rails Portfolio Project

1. Rails: Final Projects
2. Write a Blog Post about the app
3. Record Your Project Walkthrough (2 min showing what it does)
4. Share that video with your cohort (optional)
5. Submit project on Learn by end of day Sun 11/08/20 (although we do have break week the next week, so you can use that time to either work on your project OR start Javascript early)

### Week 11: October 26, 2020

#### This week's focus: Rails Helpers, Authentication, and Advanced Routing

By the end of this week, you should be able to:

- Add Helpers and Model Methods to clean up your code
- Add authentication and sessions to your rails projects for signing in users
- Create nested routing as well as namespaced routing to your rails applications

1. Monday - Rails: Routes and Resources (6 Lessons)
2. Tuesday - Rails: Authentication (Sessions Controller Lab) (5 Lessons)
3. Wednesday - Rails: Authentication (Video Review: Authentication) (5 Lessons)
4. Thursday - Rails: Authentication (Authentication And Authorization Recap And Common Gems) (4 Lessons)
5. Friday - Rails: Authentication (Finish), Popular Gems (2 Lessons)

### Week 10: October 19, 2020
#### This week's focus: Rails Validations/Forms, Associations, and Layouts/Partials

By the end of this week, you should be able to:
- Add validations to your models
- Define associations between your models
- Build helpers for your views

1. Monday - Rails: Validations and Forms (Validations With Form_For) (7 Lessons)
2. Tuesday - Rails: Validations and Forms (Finish), Rails: Associations and Rails (Displaying Associations Data Lab) (8 Lessons)
3. Wednesday - Rails: Associations and Rails (Finish) (10 Lessons)
4. Thursday - Rails: Layouts and Partials (6 Lessons)
5. Friday - Rails: Refactoring with Helpers and Model Methods (5 Lessons)

### Week 9: October 12, 2020
#### This week's focus: Intro to Rails

By the end of this week, you should be able to:

- Build a basic Rails application from scratch
- Build models, views, and controllers in a Rails application
- Perform CRUD operations on a Rails app

1. Monday - Rails: Introduction to Rails (6 lessons)
2. Tuesday - Rails: Model Basics, Rails: Intro to REST (6 lessons)
3. Wednesday - Rails: Intro to ActionView (4 lessons)
4. Thursday - Rails: CRUD with Rails (Strong Param Basics) (6 lessons)
5. Friday - Rails: CRUD with Rails (finish) (6 lessons)

### Week 8: October 4, 2020
#### This week's focus: Sinatra Portfolio Project

1. Sinatra: Final Projects
2. Write a Blog Post about the app
3. Record Your Project Walkthrough (2 min showing what it does)
4. Share that video with your cohort (optional)
5. Submit project on Learn by end of day Sun 10/04/20

### Week 7: September 28. 2020
#### This week's focus: Sinatra Forms & Sessions

By the end of this week, you should be able to:
- Build a basic form and a corresponding route to accept data from the form
- Define Sinatra routes using RESTful conventions
- Implement basic CRUD actions in Sinatra using ActiveRecord
- Add log in/sign up/log out functionality to a Sinatra app
- Use bcrypt to store passwords securely in the db and authenticate them upon login
- Create a Sinatra application that utilizes a Join table
- Use multiple controllers in a Sinatra application

1. Monday - Sinatra: MVC And Forms, Forms (Passing Data between Views and Controllers) (12 lessons)
2. Tuesday - Sinatra: Forms (finish), Sessions (13 lessons)
3. Wednesday - Sinatra: ActiveRecord (Secure Password Lab) (7 lessons)
4. Thursday - Sinatra: ActiveRecord (Finish) (8 lessons)
5. Friday - Sinatra: Project Mode (Fwitter) (1 lessons)

### Week 6: September 21, 2020
#### This week's focus: ActiveRecord Associations & Sinatra Basics

By the end of this week, you should be able to:

- Select data using ActiveRecord's querying methods
- Create a has_many / belongs_to relationship using ActiveRecord
- Start a Sinatra server using shotgun
- Define a Sinatra route and visit it in the browser

1. Monday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: ActiveRecord (Mechanics of Migration) (4 lessons)
2. Tuesday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: ActiveRecord (Finish) (4 lessons)
3. Wednesday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: Associations (ActiveRecord Associations Lab II) (3 lessons)
4. Thursday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: Associations (Finish) (4 lessons)
5. Friday - Sinatra: Sinatra Basics (7 lessons)
6. BONUS - HTML and CSS (optional)

### Week 5: September 14, 2020
#### This week's focus: SQL & ORMs | CLI Project Reviews

- SQL: Topic Introduction
- SQL: Getting Started
- SQL: Table Relations
- ORMs and ActiveRecord: ORMs

1. Monday - SQL: Topic Introduction, SQL: Getting Started (10 lessons)
2. Tuesday - SQL: Table Relations (9 lessons)
3. Wednesday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: ORMs (Mapping Database Rows to Objects Lab) (5 lessons)
4. Thursday - ORMs and ActiveRecord: ORMs (ORMS lab: Bringing it all together) (5 lessons)
5. Friday - ORMS and ActiveRecord: ORMs (finish) (6 lessons)

### Week 4: September 7, 2020
#### This week's focus: CLI Data Gem Project

1. Object Oriented Ruby: Final Projects - CLI Data Gem Project
2. Write a Blog Post about the app
3. Record Your Cli Portfolio Project Walkthrough (2 min showing what it does)
4. Share that video with your cohort (optional)
5. Submit project on Learn by end of day Sunday 09/13/2020

### Week 3: August 31, 2020
#### This week's focus: Object Relationships

- Object Oriented Ruby: Object Relationships
- Object Oriented Ruby: Object Architecture
- Object Oriented Ruby: Metaprogramming
- Object Oriented Ruby: Scraping
- Object Oriented Ruby: Video Review of OO Ruby
- Object Oriented Ruby: Final Projects - Complete through Student Scraper
- BONUS:  Object Oriented Ruby: Final Projects - TTT w AI

1. Monday - Object relationships (OO My Pets) (125)
2. Tuesday - Object relationships (Finish), Object Architecture (135)
3. Wednesday - Metaprogramming, Scraping, Getting Data From Remote Sources (151)
4. Thursday - Music library CLI (152)
5. Friday - Student Scraper (153)

### Week 2: August 24, 2020
#### This week's focus: Object Oriented Programming
#### By the end of this week, you should be able to:

- Define a class
- Create an instance(object) from a class
- Define an initialize method and know the lifecycle of an object
- Create reader and writer methods
- Create instance methods and instance variables
- Create class methods and class variables
- Understand what self is in a class method vs an instance method

1. Monday - Intro to Object Orientation, Classes and Instances, Instance Methods (90)
2. Tuesday - Object Properties (97)
3. Wednesday - Object Lifecycle, Object’s Self (104)
4. Thursday - Class Variables and Methods, Object Models (112)
5. Friday - OO Tic Tac Toe, Object Labs (117)


### Week 1: August 17, 2020
#### This week's focus:  Procedural Ruby 

1. Monday - Welcome to Flatiron School, Software Engineering, About Your Program, Variables and Methods, Booleans, Logic and Conditions (35)
2. Tuesday - Looping (all), Arrays (all) (48)
3. Wednesday - Iteration (all) (69)
4. Thursday - Hashes (all) (75)
5. Friday - Data Structures (all) (84)
